Add docs: Existing contraces (#605)
nervosnetwork/docs.nervos.org: website/docs/common-scripts/08-time-lock.mdx

---
id: time-lock
title: Time Lock
---

# Time Lock

> 
> Purpose: Time-based lock with additional lock script verification.
> 
> Part of [ckb-proxy-locks](https://github.com/ckb-devrel/ckb-proxy-locks)
> 
> ## How It Works
> 
> Requires both time conditions and lock script presence
> Takes a lock script hash (32 bytes) and since value (8 bytes) as arguments
> Can only be unlocked after the specified since condition is met AND when the required lock script is present
> Uses CKB's since field mechanism for time/block-based constraints
> 
> ### Arguments:
> 
> args[0..32]: Hash of the required lock script
> args[32..40]: Since value (8 bytes, little-endian) - can represent block number, epoch, or timestamp
> 
> ### Use Cases
> 
> Vesting schedules
> Time-delayed payments
> Escrow with time conditions
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Time Lock](https://github.com/ckb-devrel/ckb-proxy-locks/tree/main/contracts/time-lock) is a [Lock Script](/docs/tech-explanation/lock-script) that allows unlocking only after a specified time has passed and certain Lock Script hash is validated.

It is part of the[ckb-proxy-locks](https://github.com/ckb-devrel/ckb-proxy-locks).

## How It Works
- Takes a Lock Script hash (32 bytes) and `since` value (8 bytes) as arguments
```bash
args[0..32]: Hash of the required Lock Script
args[32..40]: Since value (8 bytes, little-endian) - can represent block number, epoch, or timestamp
```
- Passes validation only if the specified since condition (block number, epoch, timestamp) is satisfied AND the specified Lock Script appears in one of the transaction inputs. 

## Use Cases

- Vesting schedules
- Time-delayed payments
- Escrow with time conditions

```
